
# COMP6080 Final Exam  

For this exam you are provided with this public repostory (`exam-spec`) that all students have access to. This repository contains the questions being asked. You will then also have your own [personal exam repository](https://cgi.cse.unsw.edu.au/~cs6080/gitlabredir/25T1/exam) where you actually complete the work that will be submitted. The personal exam repo is where you actually commit and push your code.  

If you are seeking information not provided in this file, check the [COMP6080 Exam Brief page](https://cgi.cse.unsw.edu.au/~cs6080/NOW/assessments/exam). If your question is still unanswered, follow the "Communicating with teaching staff" instructions.  

## Change Log

## 1. The Exam

### 1.1 Overview

You are to build a small single page application (with either ReactJS or Vanilla JS) that has three basic interactive games, along with a dashboard acting as a homepage.

### 1.2. Getting Started

Please clone your [personal exam repository](https://cgi.cse.unsw.edu.au/~cs6080/gitlabredir/25T1/exam).

Example Instructions for React:

	1. Run `npm create vite@latest ./` in the exam root folder to initialize the project.
		default settings are:
			React framework
			Javascript variant
	2. Rum `npm install` to install default packages
	3. Run `npm run dev` to start your ReactJS app.
	4. Optionally: Install any dependencies on top of ReactJS using `npm install [dependency]`.

Note those are example set up instructions. Your set up may vary as long as it is reasonably covered in the course. 

You must use either NPM or Yarn as your package manager. Markers will start your app with `npm run dev` or `yarn dev` depending on which package manager you choose to use.

Please note: If you prefer to complete the exam with VanillaJS, then you can simply start from an empty repo.

There is no backend in this application. The entire state you manage should be done in localstorage or another form of persistent browser storage.

### 1.3. Features

The numbers in brackets next to any items (e.g. "Make the page big (1)") describe the number of marks associated with that piece of functionality.

#### 1.3.0. Main Body and Navbar (10 marks)

- The overall body should have a `margin` of `0px`. (0.5)

- The `navbar` should exist in a `60px` height box whose width stretches across the screen (1):

	- Is in a fixed position at the top of the screen at all times - even if the user scrolls down (0.5)

	- Has a background colour of `#fc8` and font colour of `#000` (0.5)

	- Has a bottom border of `1px solid #654` (0.5)

	- Has horizontal padding (both left and right) of `50px` (0.5)

- Contains:
	- A 30px x 30px logo for the application (can be any image), left aligned and vertically centred in the `navbar`. (1)

	- Links with a font size of `15px` right aligned and vertically centred (1) in the `navbar` including:

		-  `Dashboard` text centered in the box (linking to /dashboard) (0.5)

		-  `Number Memory` text centered in the box (linking to /game/numbermemory) (0.5)

		-  `Treasure Hunt` text centered in the box (linking to /game/treasurehunt) (0.5)

		-  `Flappy Bird` text centered in the box (linking to /game/flappybird) (0.5)

		- There should be an extra 20px gap only between two adjacent links (0.5).
- If the screen width drops below `1400px`, then:

	- The link's text, "Dashboard", "Number Memory", "Treasure Hunt", "Flappy Bird" becomes "D", "NM", "TH", "FB" (0.5)

	- The height of the `navbar` drops to `50px` (0.5)

- If the screen width drops below `800px`, then:

	- The link's text, "Dashboard", "Number Memory", "Treasure Hunt", "Flappy Bird" remains as "D", "NM", "TH", "FB" (0.5)

	- The height of the nav bar drops to `40px` (0.5)

- The entirety of the space on the page that isn't used by the `navbar` is referred to as the `main body`, and screens from `1.2.1`, `1.2.2`, `1.2.3`, and `1.2.4` should occupy that full space.

#### 1.3.1. Dashboard (12 marks)

- This screen exists on route `/dashboard` and contains the `navbar` from `1.2.0`. (0.5)

- This screen shall contain three lines of text that are in aligned in the centre of the page (both vertically and horizontally) (1):
	- The first line is the text `Games you need to win:` The text is colour `#fc8` and font size `3em`. (0.5)

	- The second line will contain a counter of the number of games remaining a player needs to complete to win a round, it should:
		- be initially set as the number found in the JSON object (format `{"score":5}`) at this URL: [https://cgi.cse.unsw.edu.au/~cs6080/raw/data/score.json] (original value). (2)
		- go down each time the player wins any of the 3 games (2)
		- persist between page loads by making use of a form of browser storage (e.g. `localstorage`). (2)

		- Once the value reaches 0, an alert is shown saying 'Congratulations! You've won!' - this alert will display on the game page that the player is on when winning (1). The value is also reset to the URL value (1)
		- have a font size of `4em` and colour of `red` (0.5)

- The third line will contain a `reset` button what when clicked, resets the counter on the second line to the URL value. (1)
	- It should have a font size of `3em` and colour of `brown` (0.5)

#### 1.3.2. Game 1 - Number Memory (18 marks)

   - This screen exists on route `/game/numbermemory` and contains the `navbar` from `1.2.0`. (0.5)
  -   Users are presented with an `onboarding` screen in the `main body` that contains:
	  - a `Welcome to Number Memory!` text with `2rem` font size in the top left of the main body, `30px` from the `navbar` and `40px` from the left of the screen (1)
	  - a `Get a score of 4 to win!` text with `1rem` font size aligned directly under the `Number Memory` text (0.5)
	  - a `START` button located centre aligned `100px` from the bottom of the screen. (0.5)
	  - a `STATS` tracker listing the average (0.5) and the best score (0.5)
  - Clicking `START` transitions the `main body` to a `gameplay` screen (0.5) where:
    - A random number is displayed for 3 seconds in the centre of the screen. The number starts with 1 digit. (1)
    - After the 3 seconds, the number disappears (1) and is replaced with an input box where the user is prompted to input the number. (1)
    - If the input is correct:
      -   The user's score increases by 1. (1)
      -   The next number has one more digit than the previous number. (1)
    - If the input is incorrect:
      -   The game ends and the `main body` transitions into a `End Game` screen. (1)
   - The `End Game` Screen should display each respective line vertically and horizontally centered in the page vertically stacked as followed (0.5):
	   - `Score: [total correct inputs]`(1)
	   - `Number: [the correct number]`(1)
	   - `Your Answer: [the user's incorrect answer]`(1)
		- `You've Lost :(` / `You've Won :)` (see winning and losing conditions below)
		- `click anywhere to return`(0.5)
		- Clicking anywhere on the page brings them back to the `onboarding` screen (1)
		- (specific styling is up to the student)
-   Winning Condition: The user scores 4 or more points. (1)
-   Losing Condition: The user scores less than 4 points. (1)
-   Winning the game decrements the dashboard counter. (1)


[A short video demonstration of this game can be found here](https://youtu.be/wxaFJ6Nd5jw). Please note - Though this video is a mostly accurate representation, there may be parts of this video that do not comply with the specification. This is purely here to give you a sense of the behaviour in case you are struggling to visualise it.

#### 1.3.3. Game 2 - Treasure Hunt (20 marks)

  
  -   This screen exists on route `/game/treasurehunt` and contains the `navbar` from `1.2.0`. (0.5)
  -   Users are presented with an `onboarding` screen in the `main body` that contains:
	  - a `Welcome to Treasure Hunt!` text with `2rem` font size in the top left of the `main body`, `30px` from the `navbar` and `40px` from the left of the screen (1)
      - Two integer input fields for `Time Limit (seconds)` and `Goal Coins` with text labels to the left of the input fields, and a `START` button. (2)
	    - The default values for each respective field if left blank is Time Limit = 10 seconds, Goal Coins = 5. (2)
      - The input fields and `START` button should be vertically stacked in the centre of the `main page` with some space between them. (0.5)
-   Clicking `START` transitions the `main body` to a `gameplay` screen where:
	- there are `Goal Coins` number of `yellow` circles randomly located on the page that are initially displayed as black.(1)
	- and there are `Goal Coins` number of `brown` circles randomly located on the page that are initially displayed as black.(1)
	- each circle has a diameter of `30px` (1)
	- note: coins should not spawn perfectly overlapping (some overlap is fine). (1 mark deduction)
    - Clicking on a circle reveals its colour (`brown` or `yellow`). (2)
	- Located on the top left hand of the screen, there is:
	    - a countdown timer labelled `Countdown` that displays the time remaining. (2)
    	- a counter tracking the remaining yellow coins labelled `Remaining Coins`.(1)
-   Winning conditions:
    - The user reveals all `Goal Coins` number of yellow circles within the `Time Limit` (1)
   - Losing conditions:
		- The user runs out of time before they reveal `Goal Coins` number of `yellow` coins (1)
 - Upon winning or losing the game, the user is brought to a `End Game` screen where text displaying `You Won!/You Lost` is displayed in the centre of the page depending on whether the player lost or won with `3em` and `black` font and (1)
	- `Click anywhere to return` is centred and located right underneath with `1rem` and `black` font(1)
	- Clicking anywhere on the page brings them back to the `onboarding` screen (1)
  -   Winning the game decrements the dashboard counter. (1)

[A short video demonstration of this game can be found here](https://youtu.be/xSy9KhKquMI). Please note - Though this video is a mostly accurate representation, there may be parts of this video that do not comply with the specification. This is purely here to give you a sense of the behaviour in case you are struggling to visualise it.

#### 1.3.4. Game 3 - Flappy Bird (20 marks)

  -   This page exists on route `/game/flappybird` and contains the `navbar` from 1.2.0. (0.5)
-    Users are presented with an `onboarding` screen in the `main body` that contains:
	  - a `Welcome to Flappy Bird!` text with `2rem` font size in the top left of the main body, `30px` from the `navbar` and `40px` from the left of the screen(1)
	  - a `Get a score of 3 to win!` text with `1rem` font size directly under the welcome text(0.5)
	  - the `gameplay` screen displayed underneath that:
		- has a background colour of `#eee` and non-mobile height of `400px` and `600px` width vertically centred on the page(0.5)
		- has a mobile height of `600px` and width of `400px`
		- a `blue` `20px` diameter circle located `50px` from the left of the screen vertically centred representing a `bird`.(1)
		- an obstacle whose right most edge is located `50px` from the right of the screen.(0.5)
	  	- a `Hit space or click to begin` text in the centre of this screen in `1rem` `black` font(1)
  - Obstacles are `green` rectangles with a `70px` width that stretch from the top to the bottom of the `gameplay` screen. They have a `150px` hole the bird can pass through without dying.(2)
- When the user hits space or clicks on the screen, the all text in the `onboarding` screen disappears and the `gameplay` begins
	- Performance issues such as lag in gameplay may cause a 0.5 mark deduction in this section
    - the `bird` starts falling at a rate of `3px/20ms`. Note its x-coordinate does not change(2)
    - The obstacles start moving left at a rate of `5px/30ms`(2)
    - A new obstacle appears after the rightmost obstacle currently on screen has its right most edge `200px` away from the right of the screen(1)
    - when the user clicks the mouse or presses space, the bird jumps up `30px`. (1)
    -   The user gains 1 point for each obstacle successfully passed. (1)
    -   The game ends if the bird collides with an obstacle or touches the bottom of the screen, transitioning the `main body` to a `End Game` screen (1)
	- Behaviour if the bird touches the top of the screen is not tested/marked.
 - The `End Game` Screen should display each respective line centred in the page vertically stacked:
	- `Score: X`(1)
	- `Game Over`(0.5)
	- `You've Lost :(`  /  `You've Won :)`  (see winning and losing conditions below)
	- `click anywhere to return`(0.5)
	- Clicking anywhere on the page brings them back to the `onboarding` screen (1)
	- (specific styling is up to the student)
  - Winning Condition: The user scores 3 or more points. (0.5)
-   Losing Condition: The user scores less than 3 points. (0.5)
-   Winning the game decrements the dashboard counter. (1)

[A short video demonstration of this game can be found here](https://youtu.be/4c_hNDoRQ3A). Please note - Though this video is a mostly accurate representation, there may be parts of this video that do not comply with the specification. This is purely here to give you a sense of the behaviour in case you are struggling to visualise it.

#### 1.3.5. Feature 1 - Stats (10 marks)

- When the screen is in a desktop viewport size, a button on the bottom right side of every page should appear (1)
- When clicked, it will display a stats panel (1)
- The panel will display:
    - The average score for Number Memory and Flappy Birds (0.5 per game, 1 total)
    - The best score for Number Memory and Flappy Birds (0.5 per game, 1 total)
	- The average click speed for Treasure hunt. i.e. average circle clicks to game length ratio (1)
        - game length is total time from starting to `End Game` screen
    - The number of times each game has been won (0.5 per game, 1.5 total)
    - The number of times each game has been played (0.5 per game, 1.5 total)
        - If the game was started but the user left before completing the game this doesn't count
		- (i.e you have to reach an `End Game` screen to have a game considered 'played')
    - The number of games remaining needed to win a round (see dashboard counter) (1)
    - The total rounds the user has won (when the dashboard counter hits 0) (1)
- The specific styling details for this feature is not marked.

### 1.4. Other notes

- If we don't specify a constraint, then you have discretion as to what to do, assuming it still ensures that your application is usable and accessible.

- If a CSS property constraint is not specified (e.g. font size) then you are free to use whatever is reasonable and usable.

- While we don't specify many requirements around usability and accessibility, your work needs to be both usable and accessible enough that functionalities can be tested without viewing source code.

- You should ensure that your programs have been tested on the latest version of Google Chrome  

## 2. Marking Criteria  

For each of sections, marks will be awarded according to the following criteria:

- 80%: Providing the features and functionality required in at least one of desktop, tablet, or mobile views.

- 20%: Ensuring responsiveness on desktop, tablet, and mobile

- Desktop testing will be done on a `1900px` × `1000px` viewport size

- Tablet testing will be done on a `1200px` x `800px` viewport size

- Mobile testing will be done on a `400px` x `800px` viewport size

Only functionality as specified in section 1.3 will be considered for this. i.e style, accessibility etc. are not marked

## 3. Submission  

At the end of your specified exam time, we will automatically collect the code on your master branch's HEAD (i.e. latest commit).

Please note: If you develop locally ensure you check that your code works on the CSE servers. Failure to do so could result in a fail mark in the exam.  

## 4. Originality of Work  

The work you submit must be your own work. Submission of work partially or completely derived from any other person or jointly written with any other person is not permitted.  

The penalties for such an offence may include negative marks, automatic failure of the course and possibly other academic discipline. Assignment submissions will be examined both automatically and manually for such submissions.

Relevant scholarship authorities will be informed if students holding scholarships are involved in an incident of plagiarism or other misconduct.

Do not provide or show your assignment work to any other person — apart from the teaching staff of COMP6080.

If you knowingly publish, provide or show your assignment work to another person for any reason, and work derived from it is submitted, you may be penalized, even if the work was submitted without your knowledge or consent. This may apply even if your work is submitted by a third party unknown to you.

Note you will not be penalized if your work has the potential to be taken without your consent or knowledge.
